=  Peddler

Peddler is a Ruby wrapper to the Amazon Inventory management API.

== Example usage

Fire off a client:

  client = Peddler::Client.new(
    :username => "foo@bar.com",
    :password => "secret",
    :region   => "us")

Create an inventory file:

  batch = client.new_inventory_batch
  item = client.new_inventory_item(
    :product_id => "1234567890",
    :price      => 100.00,
    :sku        => "SKU-123",
    :quantity   => 10)
  batch << item
  ...

Repeat ad infinitum and upload:

  batch.upload

The batch now should have an upload ID. Go ahead and check the error log:

  upload_log = client.new_report(
    :upload,
    :id => batch.id)
  upload_log.body
  => "Feed Processing Summary:\n\tNumber of records processed\t\t1\n\tNumber of records successful\t\t1\n\n"
 
You're done listing and are wondering if you have any new orders:

  orders_report = client.new_report :order
  orders = client.detab(orders_report.body)
  p orders.size
  => 1500
  p orders[0].item_name
  => "A Thousand Plateaus: Capitalism and Schizophrenia (Paperback) by Gilles Deleuze"

Now that you have diligently processed the orders, post back the results to Amazon:
  
  feed = client.new_order_fulfillment_feed
  fulfilled_order = new_fulfilled_order(
    :order_id         => "123-1234567-1234567",
    :order_date       => "2009-08-01",
    :carrier_code     => "USPS",
    :tracking_number  => "0308 0330 0000 0000 0000")
  feed << fulfilled_order
  
Again, repeat until done and upload:

  feed.upload
  
Curious to see the processing report?
  
  p feed.status
  => "_SUBMITTED_"
  
Refresh until you see:

  p feed.status!
  => "_DONE_"

Finally, check the report:

  p feed.download.to_s
  => ...
  
Sadly, you also have an order you can't fulfill. No problem. The workflow is similar:

  feed = client.new_order_cancellation_feed
  cancelled_order = new_cancelled_order(
    :order_id => "123-1234567-1234567",
    :cancellation_reason_code => "NoInventory",
    :amazon_order_item_code => "12341234567890")
  feed << cancelled_order
  feed.upload
  sleep(60)
  feed.status!
  => "_DONE_"  
  p feed.download.to_s
  => ...

Need to post a partial refund? You'll have to revert to the older batch refund API method:

  refunds = client.new_refund_batch
  refund = client.new_refund(
    :order_id                 => "123-1234567-1234567",
    :payments_transaction_id  => "12341234567890",
    :refund_amount            => 1.00,
    :reason                   => "GeneralAdjustment",
    :message                  => "With our apologies.")
  refunds << refund
  refunds.upload

Great sales. For a change, let's download something different from Amazon. Here's a preorder report:

  preorder_report = client.new_report(
    :preorder,
    :product_line => "Books",
    :frequency    => 2)
  preorders = client.detab(preorder_report.body)
  p preorders.size
  => 2000
  p preorders[0].asin
  => "1234567890"
  p preorders[0].average_asking_price
  => "100"

Run rdoc and check the source for more detailed info.

== Todos

* Replace Net::Http with a cURL-based client as former craps up with very large file downloads.
* Add some more parsers.

Copyright © 2009 Hakan Senol Ensari, released under the MIT license